Document map protocol versions (v2) (#67)
PGMDev/Website: docs/modules/general/proto.mdx

          <br />
          Required objectives to define if they are needed to win the match.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.3.6</label>
        </td>
        <td>
          Moved all defining elements out of module XML root.
          <br />
          Everything scores zero points by default.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.3.5</label>
        </td>
        <td>Filters are aware of who owns TNT.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.3.4</label>
        </td>
        <td>Wools must have a location property.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.3.3</label>
        </td>
        <td>Define how overlapping regions should behave.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.3.2</label>
        </td>
        <td>Added monument modes.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.3.1</label>
        </td>
        <td>Off-by-one region bug fixed.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

## Map Protocol Changelog

### Changes in 1.4.2

<span className="badge badge--danger">Breaking</span>
<br />

> - The objectives filter will now always automatically derive team ownership for the objective from context. To match an objective without any specific team, the <label>any="true"</label> attribute needs to be specified.

Reviewer: `<label>any="true"</label>` is not being properly highlighted but this is most likely a problem with Docusarus or some other quirk involving the `<span>` tag. This can be fixed later so you can leave it as is

Author: Switching it to use \`<label>any="true"</label>` could work, but it will not have the red highlight as it appear in the table.

- Added `<match-started/>`, `<match-running/>` & `<match-finished/>` filters that are used to check the state of the current match.
- New `pre-match-physics` attribute for the terrain module to enable physics events before the match starts.
- Added `<observing>` and `<participant>` filters. Also added an `observers` filter property to portals to restrict observer access.
- Added player rank and score filters. Filters return if the player's rank or score is within the specified range.
- Control points have new `recovery` and `decay` attributes that replace the `incremental` attribute and allow more control of the progress.

### Changes in 1.4.0

<span className="badge badge--danger">Breaking</span>
<br />

- Filters, regions, and kits now use `id` instead of `name`.
  - Keep in mind that IDs are all in the same namespace, so you can not use the same ID for two different types of thing.
- Teams have an `id` attribute and are always referenced by it everywhere in the XML, **never** by name.
- Standalone filter definitions are no longer wrapped in a `<filter>` tag, they start with an actual filter, just like regions, e.g.

>   - ```xml

Reviewer: Move all of these XML examples into the same relevant top bullet. Do not give it a separate bullet.

- Inline filters must always be a single tag, multiple tags are not accepted anywhere. To combine multiple filters, always use a compound filter like `<all>` or `<any>`. This change is retroactive, and affects _all_ proto versions.
- There is no longer a filter type called `<block>`, use `<material>` instead. `<block>` is always interpreted as a region.
- The old built-in filters are gone, and there are only two new ones: `always` which is equivalent to `allow-all`, and never which is equivalent to `deny-all`.
  - All of the new built-ins have equivalent tags of the same name i.e. `<always/>` & `<never/>`.
- `<allow>` and `<deny>` can now be used anywhere a filter is expected, and actually function how they were supposed to i.e. they cause the filter to be ignored (skipped over) if it does not match.
- Blitz titles are no longer a part of the [Blitz Module](/docs/modules/objectives/blitz), instead they are set using the map sub-element `<game>` and can be used with any gamemode.
- Match time limit is no longer part of the `<score>` or `<blitz>` module, instead it is defined directly in the root element.

>   - ```xml

Reviewer: Make the XML example fit in the same bulletpoint as above.

    <map proto="1.4.0">
    <time result="objectives">5m</time>
    <!-- Other modules. -->
    </map>
    ```

  ***

>   <span class="badge badge--primary">Change</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <span class="badge badge--primary">Changes</span>
```

  <br />

- The top-level tags `<filters>` and `<regions>` are now the same thing. You can define filters, regions, and `<apply>`s in either one (remember that regions are a type of filter, have been for a while now).
- Any filter tag anywhere can have an `id` attribute.
- The `<apply>` tag accepts both references and inline definitions for its `region`, `kit`, and all of its filter properties, e.g. the two tags below are equivalent:

>   - ```xml

Reviewer: Make the XML example fit in the same bulletpoint as above.

            <team>red-team</team>
        </filter>
        <block>
            <material>leaves</material>
        </block>
    </apply>
    ```

- The `safe` and `spread` attributes of spawns can now be combined.
- A items slot attribute is no longer required in kits. This attribute now also accepts Mojang slot names e.g. `slot.hotbar.8` or `armor.head`.
  ***

<span className="badge badge--success">New</span>
<br />

- There are two built-in regions called `everywhere` and `nowhere` that contain all points and no points, respectively.
  - All of the new built-ins have equivalent tags of the same name i.e. `<everywhere/>` & `<nowhere/>`.
- A team can have a minimum required size with the `min=""` attribute.
- Objectives have a `required` attribute that specifies if they are required to complete the match.
  ***

<span className="badge badge--info">Removed</span>
<br />

- The `<multitrade/>` tag has been removed, it is now always enabled.

### Changes in 1.3.6

<span className="badge badge--danger">Breaking</span>
<br />

- Regions for cores, destroyables, wools, portals & score boxes must be defined in a `<region>` sub-element or referenced in a `region` attribute.

>   - ```xml

Reviewer: Move this up like explained above

    <core>
        <region>
            <cuboid min="..." max="..."/>
        </region>
    </core>
    <core region="my-region"/>
    ```

>   - Similarly, spawn regions must be defined in a `<regions>` sub-element or referenced in a `regions` attribute.

Reviewer: This can stay as a sub-bullet, but make the XML example in the same bullet as the text.

---
id: proto
title: Protocol Versions
---

The `proto=""` attribute specifies what iteration of PGM a certain XML document was created for. It also instructs PGM on whether to allow the usage of deprecated or newly introduced features within a map. If the value is lower than the currently recommended proto version, the map will load but the XML may be interpreted in an outdated way.

Mapmakers should always use the latest supported proto version, and this may be required of new maps that are to be added to any map compilation projects, such as [ResourcePile](https://mcresourcepile.github.io).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Map Element
```

      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>proto</label>
        </td>
        <td>
          <span className="badge badge--danger">Required</span>
          The map XML's protocol version.
        </td>
        <td>
          <span className="badge badge--success">Recommended</span>
          <label>1.4.2</label>
        </td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

##### Map Protocol Values

<div className="table-container">
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Version</th>
        <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.4.2</label>
        </td>
        <td>
          <span className="badge badge--warning">Forward Compatibility</span>
          Refer to <a href="#changes-in-142">Changes in 1.4.2</a>.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.4.1</label>
        </td>
        <td>
          <span className="badge badge--warning">Forward Compatibility</span>
          Refer to <a href="#changes-in-141">Changes in 1.4.1</a>.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.4.0</label>
        </td>
        <td>

>           Filters, regions, and teams are always referenced by its ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Filters, regions, and teams are always referenced by its ID (replaces <label>name</label>.
```

Author: You forgot the second parenthesis, manually added in [6505f6c](https://github.com/PGMDev/Website/pull/67/commits/6505f6cfcdc0e1eb91600eb37ba0991b054b14a3)

          <br />

>           Disallowed <label>&lt;time&gt;</label> inside{" "}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Disallows <label>&lt;time&gt;</label> inside{" "}
```

          <label>&lt;score&gt;</label> or <label>&lt;blitz&gt;</label> &

>           disallow <label>&lt;title&gt;</label> inside{" "}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          disallows <label>&lt;title&gt;</label> inside{" "}
```

          <label>&lt;blitz&gt;</label>.
          <br />

>           Required objectives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Required objectives to define if they are needed to win the match.
```

        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.3.6</label>
        </td>
        <td>
          Moved all defining elements out of module XML root.
          <br />
          Everything scores zero points by default.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.3.5</label>
        </td>
        <td>Filters is aware of who owns TNT.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <label>1.3.4</label>
        </td>

>         <td>Wools have a location property.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <td>Wools must have a location property.</td>
```

  ***

<span class="badge badge--success">New</span>
<br />

<span className="badge badge--secondary">Partially implemented</span>{" "}

- Portals, kits, score boxes & structures can now be dynamically applied using dynamic filters. All region types are dynamic, however, only some filter types are dynamic.
  - Kits now have [`give`, `take` & `lend` properties](/docs/modules/gear/kits#dynamic-kits).
  - Portals have [`forward`, `reverse` & `transit` properties](/docs/modules/mechanics/portals#portal-sub-elements).
  - Structures & [score boxes](/docs/modules/objectives/scoring#score-box-attributes) have a `trigger` property.
- <span className="badge badge--secondary">Not implemented</span> Added a player
  count filter.
- Added a `<grounded/>` filter to check if the player is standing on the ground.
- Added `<match-started/>`, `<match-running/>` & `<match-finished/>` filters that are used to check the state of the current match.
- New `pre-match-physics` attribute for the terrain module to enable physics events before the match starts.

> ### Changes in 1.4.1

Reviewer: The source code doesn't mention a proto 1.4.1, these should be moved to 1.4.2

Author: I moved bullet 4, 5, and 7 in Proto 1.4.1 paragraph to be under 1.4.2 and removed everything else as it's only relevant for Minecraft 1.9 and newer.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20259871/193959388-de5c9a63-66bc-42f3-9a7f-b4e06648d4ab.png)

I also changed the Protocol Values table to show that 1.4.1 currently does nothing on PGM (from a quick testing of a map originally made with proto 1.4.0 changed to 1.4.1)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20259871/193959846-419cc942-7a50-42dc-be16-d6f6daf54bb0.png)

Reviewer 2: Just saw the pic and want to mention: player count fikter *has* been reimplemented

Author: > Just saw the pic and want to mention: player count filter _has_ been reimplemented

Thanks for catching that. I must've missed the commit that re-implemented it and never got around to updating the page to reflect it.

<span className="badge badge--danger">Breaking</span>
<br />

<span className="badge badge--secondary">Not implemented</span>

- `<random>` filters now only respond to instantaneous events, and abstain when used in any persistent context. This breaks some uses that relied on undefined behavior, but these would likely break anyway as filters gain more dynamic functionality.
  ***

<span class="badge badge--primary">Change</span>
<br />

- <span className="badge badge--secondary">Not implemented</span> As of Minecraft
  1.9, TNT fuse time is no longer limited to 4 seconds.

> - Portals react to player move events allowing almost instant teleportation as soon as the filter matches.

Reviewer: This only applies to dynamic portals. Standard portals still only check if a player is trying to enter its region.

  ***

<span class="badge badge--success">New</span>
<br />

- Added `<observing>` and `<participant>` filters. Also added an `observers` filter property to portals to restrict observer access.
- Added player rank and score filters. Filters return if the player's rank or score is within the specified range.
- <span className="badge badge--secondary">Not implemented</span> Added a gliding
  filter, returns if the player is gliding with an elytra.
- Control points have new `recovery` and `decay` attributes that replace the `incremental` attribute and allow more control of the progress.

### Changes in 1.4.0

<span className="badge badge--danger">Breaking</span>
<br />

- Filters, regions, and kits now use `id` instead of `name`.
  - Keep in mind that IDs are all in the same namespace, so you can not use the same ID for two different types of thing.

> - Teams have a `id` attribute and are always referenced by it everywhere in the XML, **never** by name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Teams have an `id` attribute and are always referenced by it everywhere in the XML, **never** by name.
```

- Standalone filter definitions are no longer wrapped in a `<filter>` tag, they start with an actual filter, just like regions, e.g.

  - ```xml
    <filters>
      <team id="only-red">red-team</team>
    </filters>
    ```

- The region for an `<apply>` must be either a `region` attribute or a `<region>` sub-element. It cannot appear directly inside the `<apply>` tag.
- Inline filters must always be a single tag, multiple tags are not accepted anywhere. To combine multiple filters, always use a compound filter like `<all>` or `<any>`. This change is retroactive, and affects _all_ proto versions.
- There is no longer a filter type called `<block>`, use `<material>` instead. `<block>` is always interpreted as a region.
- The old built-in filters are gone, and there are only two new ones: `always` which is equivalent to `allow-all`, and never which is equivalent to `deny-all`.
  - All of the new built-ins have equivalent tags of the same name i.e. `<always/>` & `<never/>`.

> - Filters can no longer have parents.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what the old docs mean by this, but filters can be placed inside filters obviously. I would remove this since it's confusing

- `<allow`> and `<deny>` can now be used anywhere a filter is expected, and actually function how they were supposed to i.e. they cause the filter to be ignored (skipped over) if it does not match.

> - Blitz or Ghost Squadron titles are no longer a part of the [Blitz module](/docs/modules/objectives/blitz), instead they are set as a attribute of the `<map>` element and can be used with any gamemode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Blitz titles are no longer a part of the [Blitz Module](/docs/modules/objectives/blitz), instead they are set using the map sub-element `<game>` and can be used with any gamemode.
```

- [Pickups module](/docs/modules/gear/pickups) for location specific kit pickups.
  ***

<span className="badge badge--info">Removed</span>
<br />

- The `<multitrade/>` tag has been removed, it is now always enabled.

### Changes in 1.3.6

<span className="badge badge--danger">Breaking</span>
<br />

- Regions for cores, destroyables, wools, portals & score boxes must be defined in a `<region>` sub-element or referenced in a `region` attribute.

  - ```xml
    <core>
        <region>
            <cuboid min="..." max="..."/>
        </region>
    </core>
    <core region="my-region"/>
    ```
  - Similarly spawn regions must be defined in a `<regions>` sub-element or referenced in a `regions` attribute.
  - ```xml
    <spawns>
        <spawn team="red">
            <regions yaw="90">
                <cuboid min="1,0,2" max="3,0,4"/>
                <cylinder base="7,8,9" radius="5" height="0"/>
            </regions>
        </spawn>
    </spawns>
    ```

- Everything scores 0 points by default, this means you have to explicitly define `<kills>` and `<deaths>` in the score module if you want players to get points for killing players.

> - The `<playable>` region module has been removed, this should now be handled using filters.

Reviewer: `<playable>` and `<lanes>` are deprecated but currently present in PGM and not restricted by proto.

Author: Where are you seeing `<lanes>`? I wasn't able to find any reference of it in the original .mdx file.

Reviewer: https://github.com/PGMDev/PGM/blob/dev/core/src/main/java/tc/oc/pgm/regions/RegionModule.java
`<playable>` and `<lanes>` do pretty much the same thing, so I used them interchangeably, my mistake. This line should also be deleted.
